Assignment-5

Here is the video recording with detailed explanation: 

1. Implement Naïve Bayes method using scikit-learn library Use dataset available with name glass Use train_test_split to create training and testing part Evaluate the model on test part using score and classification_report(y_true, y_pred)
A) Here in the program we are using scikit-learn library by using a data set named glass.csv and here we are importing pandas as pd because pandas are used for data cleaning and analysis and we are using sklearn.model_selction for setting a blueprint to analyse data and then use it measure new data and we are importing train_test_split.Because, to split our data into train and test sets and we are using naive bayes model. We also import guassiannb for providing the actual number of training samples observed in every class.sklearn metrics is used for knowing number of true samples that lie in the class and classification report is used to display the precission recall and support scores for the model additionally accuracy score function is used to know the accuracy of the correct predictions. Dot drop function is also used for dropping the specific row or coloumn and we are using axis one to represent coloumns. Test size is used to define the size of a test set which is very similar to the train size and also random states are used for generating random numbers from various distributions. gnb.fit is used to fit the model.prediction and then accuracy is calculated.

2. Implement linear SVM method using scikit library Use the same dataset above Use train_test_split to create training and testing part Evaluate the model on test part using score and classification_report(y_true, y_pred) Which algorithm you got better accuracy? Can you justify why?.
A) Here in the program we are using scikit-learn library by using a data set named glass.csv and here we are importing pandas as pd because pandas are used for data cleaning and analysis and we are using sklearn.model_selction for setting a blueprint to analyse data and then use it measure new data and we are importing train_test_split.Because, to split our data into train and test sets. we are importing svc for classification task. Test size is used to define the size of a test set which is very similar to the train size and also random states are used for generating random numbers from various distributions and we are using the same process which is done in naive bayes model and finally prediction and accuracy is done by using linear SVM method.

Which algorithm you got better accuracy? Can you justify why?
A) Comparing with Naive Bayes method Linear SVM method has better accuracy due to its ability to handle complex decision boundaries, flexibility in handling correlated features, effective regularization, and sensitivity to feature scaling. These factors, along with the specific characteristics of the glass dataset, could have contributed to the superior performance of Linear SVM compared to Naive Bayes.
